# Code Everything

It is said that one doesn't really know a subject until they teach it. I argue
similarly for any concept that can be programmed: deep mastery of such concepts
comes from programming them ourselves. Programming is, in a sense, teaching
computers.

In this text, we work through the fundamentals of computer vision by coding them
all on our own. Where reasonable, we use no supplementary software libraries
until we have implemented some functionality of them ourselves. In this way, we
build a deeper technical understanding of what the libraries are doing behind
their APIs.

# About the Author

I am a computer engineer by education and a software engineer by profession. I
have mostly focused on embedded and systems programming in my career to date
(2021). I had the opportunity to join a machine learning team for perception in
autonomous vehicles, and my interest in computer vision and machine learning led
me to pursue that opportunity. With no formal background in or experience with
computer vision, I had to teach myself on the job and after hours. This text is
a result of my journey, prepared for others who may find themselves in my former
shoes or sympathize with my approach to learning.

# Prerequisites

This text won't teach the fundamentals of computer science, nay, programming.
You must be able to write your own general programs. You may implement the
material in this text using whichever language you are most comfortable with. I
will give demonstrations in Python 3 with occassional explanation in C or C++. I
expect the reader to have general readability in languages like Python to follow
along. In our journey, we will use some third-party Python libraries like
[NumPy](https://numpy.org/) and [OpenCV 2](https://opencv.org/) and also
image-manipulation software like [GIMP](https://www.gimp.org/).

# Organization

Every section that contains something to be coded is organized into three
subsections. The first is **Theory** which explains a concept. The second is
**Challenge** which presents the reader with a coding challenge based on the
material in **Theory**. And the last is **Implementation** which demonstrates
one way to solve the problem statement in **Challenge**.
